##########
# Editor #
##########

Early Detection of Patients at Risk of Multi-Drug Resistant Enterobacteriaceae
Infection using Graph Neural Networks: a Retrospective Study

1\\ Reviewers provided many suggestions to improve the paper, and we hope you
    find them helpful and please respond to their comments.

2\\ Editors suggest the authors revisit the title. If the "early detection" is
    kept in the title, the authors should clarify how their work can prove this.
    The model was applied to predict the risk of AMS, AMR, and MDR, the title
    reads " Multi-Drug Resistant Enterobacteriaceae Infection", which seems to
    be narrower than the research scope?
    
    ---> remove "early", remove "MDR"
    Detection of Patients at Risk of Enterobacteriaceae Infection Using Graph
    Neural Networks: a Retrospective Study

3\\ Please pay close attention to reviewers' comments on baseline comparison
    models.

4\\ We appreciate it if the authors can please revise the research abstracts to
    follow a consistent structure: Background, Methods, Results, and
    Conclusions.

5\\ Please ensure that the main text follows the following structure:
    Introduction, Methods, Results, Discussion, and Conclusions. You are
    welcome to use subheadings to organize content in each section.

6\\ Please double-check and make sure your paper contains these items at the end
    of the manuscript: Ethical Approval, Data Availability, Funding, Authors'
    Contribution, Conflict of Interests, Acknowledgments, Supplementary
    Materials, References


##############
# Reviewer 1 #
##############

This paper studies the problem of risk assesment of inpatient colonisation by
multi-drug resistant (MDR) Enterobacteriaceae and proposes to design a
graph-based machine learning architecture. A graph is constructed to handle the
structure data and a GNN is applied to perform prediction. The effectiveness of
the architecture is empirically demonstrated by experiments.

Strong points:

    S1. The proposed architecture handles laboratory, clinical and
        administrative data, and patient features in an elegant way. Unlike
        previous methods, the proposed solution well handles the EHR data and
        take the interactions between patients and healthcare workers into
        account.

    S2. Extensive experiments are conducted to comprehensively demonstrate the
        effectiveness of the architecture.

    S3. The presentation is clear and comprehensive. The paper also includes
        important details of data processing and data sources, which enables
        better reproducibility.

Weak points:

    W1. As the architecture requires multi-omics data which is hard to obtain,
        the impact of the architecture is limited.

    W2. The improvements of GNNs are compared with some weak baselines, e.g.,
        logistic regression, KNN, random forest.

    W3. Suggestion: better GNN model other than GCN could be leveraged.


##############
# Reviewer 2 #
##############

This paper proposed graph neural networks (GNN) to predict patients at risk of
Multi-Drug resistant Enterobacteriaceae infection. In doing so, interactions
among patients and healthcare workers were modelled. Afterwards, the authors
implemented GNN to predict the risk, and the AUROC achieved 0.93, which is 7%
higher than a logistic model.

Overall, this study is quite interesting as the findings and insights of this
study can used to support infection prevention and control programmes to detect
patients at risk of colonisation by MDR Enterobacteriaceae and other bacteria
families. The paper is nicely structured, with sufficient background information
and terminology.

They used logistic regression, random forest, CatBoost etc., to compare with
GCN. From my understanding, these traditional machine learning models cannot
capture the topological features from the network, which features did the
authors use to train these models? Please address.

In addition, there is some random walk-based method, such as DeepWalk or
node2Vec. I suggest the authors may use these models for a fair comparison.

Further, the authors should compare the false positives and false negatives of
the model. What is the effect of these false detection rates in practical
situations?


####################
# Reviewer Douglas #
####################

For the next steps, Dimitrios, please proceed with the following experiments:

1\\ evaluate existing predictions with a decision threshold of 0.5 for all models

2\\ re-run the graph experiments using graphSAGE instead of GCN, in an inductive
    learning setting

3\\ re-train all the classic models and use exactly the same input features as
    the GNNs 

4\\ re-create the ensemble results with the new predictions

5\\ do an ablation study for the best classic and GNN models, removing the
    diagnosis feature 

6\\ create a new split, where patient ids in the train, dev and test sets are
    disjoint sets

7\\ re-do all the experiments (including SAGE), i.e., tables 2-3 and figures 4-7


#########
# Admin #
#########

If you decide to revise the work, please submit the following:

--- A cover letter with a list of changes or a rebuttal against each point
    raised in the review

--- A separate revised manuscript file with highlighted changes

--- Separate high-res figure files in editable file format: Adobe Portable
    Document Format (PDF), PostScript (PS), or Encapsulated PostScript (EPS)
    for illustrations or diagrams; Tagged Image File Format (TIFF), JPEG, PNG,
    PhotoShop (PSD), EPS, or PDF for photography or microscopy

--- Signed License to Publish forms from each Author, found here:
    https://www.editorialmanager.com/hds/account/HDS_LicenseToPublish.pdf

--- Signed ICMJE Forms for Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest for
    each Author. The form can be accessed on the ICJME website here:
    http://www.icmje.org/conflicts-of-interest OR directly at:
    https://www.editorialmanager.com/hds/account/HDS_COI_Form.pdf

--- For all images requiring permission to publish, the corresponding author
    must fill out the Image Permission form available here:
    https://www.editorialmanager.com/hds/account/HDS_ImagePermission.pdf

If any changes in authorship have taken place, use the form available here:
https://www.editorialmanager.com/HDS/account/Auth_Change_Form.pdf

Your revision is due by Apr 30, 2023. --> (UPDATED TO 30 OF JUNE!)

To submit a revision, go to https://www.editorialmanager.com/hds/ and log in as
an Author. You will see a menu item call Submission Needing Revision. You will
find your submission record there.
